[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Father was a medical student
and he was in medical school
and learned what everybody
else learned in medical school,
namely you diagnose and
then you treat the disease.
And that's what he was doing.
But he had a problem.
And his problem was he had
very severe migraine headaches.
And by the time he
was through residency,
he was sometimes laid up with
migraines two and three days
a week in a dark room
with horrible, you know,
light sensitivity, dark room
and nausea and all of that.
So he-- he had these
terrible migraines,
and he asked his doctors
and teachers and professors
and they all said,
"Well, just look it up.
There's nothing you can do.
You'll feel better
when you're 55."
"But I'm 25.
I can't face life like this."
"Well, learn to live with it,"
which people still hear today
from their doctors when the
doctors don't know what to do.
But he refused to
do that, decided
he would have to find a way.
Well, he searched and searched.
He went to many
doctors and professors.
He studied.
He read.
He had literature translated
from other languages.
He really worked at it.
And finally, he found one
obscure little Italian journal
talking about a woman
changing her diet
and her migraines improved.
Diet?
Nobody taught him
anything about diet.
He knew nothing
specific about diet.
But he thought, "No,
that's a new idea.
Maybe there's an allergy
that's bothering me."
Anyway, so he started to play
around and change his diet.
And he decided that every
baby can digest milk.
He ought to be able to
do much better if he
drank nothing but milk.
But obviously, he
didn't do at all better
and was just as sick as before,
because milk is not for adults.
Milk is for babies.
And cow's milk is for baby cows.
So he looked for something else.
And they looked at our
physiological ancestors--
I don't want any
religious problems here--
and the simian animals
and vegetarians.
They ate roots
and nuts and seeds
and they ate greens and leaves
and fruit and things like that.
So he decided he'd try that.
And living in Germany, apples
were always all year round,
always ample and plentiful.
So he lived on nothing
but apples for a few days.
And he was free of migraines.
Baked apples and raw
apples and cooked apples
and applesauce and apple
juice, nothing but apples.
Then he added one
thing after another.
And sometimes if he
added the wrong thing,
he could have a headache, a
migraine within 20 minutes.
So he found out very quickly
these and these and these foods
I can handle without being
sick, and these foods give me
migraine.
Fine.
So he called it
his migraine diet.
Years later, when he settled
in his own private practice,
people would come to him.
Among other things, some were
complaining of migraines.
And he told them,
"Look, all the books
all the texts say that
migraine is incurable.
I had migraine.
I'm doing so and
so and so and so.
Why don't you try it?"
And invariably the patients
would come back three,
four weeks later and
say, "Yes, Doctor,
as long as I stick to what
you told me, I'm fine.
But if I cheat, I
get a migraine."
OK.
Until one patient
came to him and said,
"Dr. Gerson, my migraines
are gone, and that's fine.
But I also had
skin tuberculosis,"
so-called lupus vulgaris.
"And that is gone, too.
It's healing."
So my father said, "No, no,
that's an incurable disease.
Must have been something
else because it has
nothing to do with migraines."
OK, so the guy pulls from
his pocket laboratory proof
that yes, the lesions
had tuberculoid in it.
So my father said,
"Let me see that."
And he looked at the
first time ever had a skin
tuberculosis lesion healing.
And then he said,
"Well, my shingle--"
he was trained by the famous
neurosurgeon neurologist
Foerster in Breslau, Germany.
And his shingle read
internal and nerve diseases.
But look at this skin disease.
So he said, "I never
see patients like that.
Do you know others?
It's relatively rare."
"Oh, yes, a hospital
where I went."
"Well, send me some.
I'll treat them free of charge.
I just want to find
out whether it works."
Well, that's what happened.
He sent patients.
The patients got
the migraine diet,
and their lupus skin
tuberculosis healed.
And that came to the ears
of the famous lung TB
specialist, which was
Ferdinand Sauerbruch in Munich.
And he couldn't
quite believe that.
But he invited my
father to come to Munich
from where he was practicing
in Westphalia in Bielefeld.
And he said, "Look,
we'll test it.
And we'll take some TB patients,
skin tuberculosis patients
and that are in
advanced condition.
And if you can even stop a
single one from advancing,
I'll believe every
word you say."
He took 450 advanced skin
tuberculosis patients,
of which 446 recovered--
didn't just stop,
recovered, healed.
And then he published all this,
of course, under his own name.
He was the big professor.
My father was just a little
country doctor, right?
Anyway, that's how it happened.
But my father wasn't
satisfied with this.
He figured, first of all,
what is the connection
between migraine and TB.
He didn't understand that.
The next thing was
if skin tuberculosis
can heal with nutrition,
with the right diet, what
had other forms of TB?
And there was lots of people,
and especially young people,
who had this so-called
galloping tuberculosis that
were dying in their late
teens and their early 20s.
It was a killer
lung tuberculosis.
And he figured we'll have to
try it on lung TB, on bone TB,
on encephalitic brain TB, and
various others, kidney TB.
The TB is a German, wanders
all around the place, right?
And he started to
practice in his practice
to use this what he called
his migraine diet on TB,
on other forms of TB.
And yes, it worked.
And that's brought
him to Berlin where
under the auspices of the
famous Berlin TB specialist,
and so on.
Then he had a whole bunch of
lung TB patients certified
by three authorities to be
incurable that he cured.
But that's where his whole
training changed, because what
he found in those cases
was these patients
didn't just have TB.
Many had high blood
pressure, low blood pressure.
Many had allergies.
Many had other problems,
kidney problems and so on,
even though they were young.
And all their
problems disappeared.
And that's where he first
realized that he was not
treating a disease.
He was helping the body
to recover, to strengthen,
the immune system
to kill the germs,
but to also heal the
other chronic changes
and diseases that
had already occurred.
And that's where he
completely parted company
with orthodox medicine.
And that's how he later was
able to cure multiple sclerosis
and migraine headaches, and
of course, high blood pressure
and heart disease and
all the other things.
And yet, it took another
totally different experience
before he was able
to cure cancer.
What happened there, way before
all of these TB situations
worked out, a patient
called him one day
and said, "Dr. Gerson, I'd
like you to come to my house--"
he used to make home visits--
"come to my house.
I'm sick I can't come."
"So what's your problem?"
She wouldn't say.
He asked, but she
wouldn't answer.
He comes to the home of this
very sick lady, bedfast,
and it turns out she has
stomach cancer with metastasis.
She had had surgery, came back.
She was very ill.
She was dying.
My father said, "I've
never dealt with cancer,
and I don't know what to do."
"Yes, yes, I know that.
But you know, on the
book on the table
over there is a book about
healing, about folk medicine.
I'd like you to read that.
It's very much like
what you are doing.
And maybe, you know,
we can combine that."
Well, anyway, he wrote
up a treatment for her,
which was very similar
to his TB treatment.
And she got better.
High fever disappeared.
Pain disappeared.
She was able to eat and drink.
And my father was
supposed to come back.
And then something most
interesting happened.
When my father came the second
time, her husband was around.
And he was furious.
He said, "No, I
don't want anymore.
I go to the doctors
around here."
And then he literally
threw him out.
He threw my father out.
He said, "I don't want you here.
Go."
And interestingly enough, it
probably saved his wife's life,
because what happened
normally, when
he was treating TB patients,
after a certain degree
of recovery on this very
vegetarian salt-free diet,
he would add things like a
little yolk of egg and things
like butter and
things like that.
And that would have
made tumors regrow.
But meantime, he'd been thrown
out, and she didn't add that.
So she recovered.
He didn't know.
He didn't know that
until much later.
But she said three
other patients
who did the same thing
who also recovered
from cancer, spreading cancer,
that had been given up.
And he couldn't forget that.
And he tried again and tried
again later on in Vienna,
after we had left Germany
and then in France.
And he didn't have good results.
And it took a lot
additional study
before he found in various
research materials, also
here in the US, in New York,
where at Sloan Kettering,
they found that in patients who
had had cancer surgery, if they
had high cholesterol,
they survived less well.
They healed less well
than those patients
who had low cholesterol.
And that's when it started
to begin to jive in his mind
that it's the fats.
And that's when he started
to totally restrict fats.
And when he restricted
yolk of egg and oils
and butter and animal
fats, of course,
the patients recovered
and stayed well
and didn't get recurrences.
And that came a good deal
later, after he had long
been able to deal with
and very positively heal
the other diseases.
But the cancer was
very much dependent
on completely eliminating fats.
And he did that till
one year before he died.
He was getting
tremendous results.
But he had tried and tried to
include in the patient's diet
the essential fatty acids.
He knew they were necessary.
Yet he also knew
whenever he tried,
no matter he tried
oils and fats,
he tried every kind
of oil he could
think of-- the sunflower, the
safflower oil, the olive oil,
the nut oils, the cottonseed
oil, all of these things.
And patients who already had
completely eliminated any tumor
tissue, it would
make new tumors grow
when he gave them these fats.
He even tried a little
unsalted fresh butter.
Made no difference.
Therefore, his book, which
came out in early 1958,
in several places it
says no fats, no oils,
because he found over
and over and over again,
with every kind
of oil and fat he
tried, that it would
bring tumors back,
even though the patients
had already recovered
and the tumors were gone.
It stimulated regrowth.
Until-- and that was
after the book came out--
until he ran across the work
of Dr. Johanna Budwig, who
found the one oil that the
tumor-bearing patient can
handle.
And that's flaxseed oil,
the organic flaxseed oil.
And that rang a bell.
And he tried it.
And not only it worked, it
worked to improve his results.
But this was after
the book was finished
in the last year of his life.
And he found that not
only the oils helped
to carry the vitamin A, because
vitamin A is all soluble,
it helped to carry
vitamin A into the system
and to the tumor tissue.
And it helped to kill
malignant tissue.
It did more.
The omega-3s helped to
clear the plaque out
of the arteries so
that there was better
circulation,
improved circulation.
So he had better
results when he was
able to add the
organic flaxseed oil.
And that's what he did.
But it didn't get into the
book until I added Appendix 1,
and I explain that
situation in the book, OK?
But we still use flaxseed oil.
And it works.
[MUSIC PLAYING]